README.md, before:

# **NL CORONAVIRUS DASHBOARD**

---

**<a style="color:red">NOTE! STILL WORKING ON IT.</a>**

**<a style="color:red">NOTE! DUE TO TECHNICAL ISSUES THE GITHUB ACTION RUN INTO ERRORS. WE ARE TRYING TO FIX THIS AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.</a>**

[![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/minvws/nl-covid19-data-backend-processing/ci-cd?label=build&logo=github-actions&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/minvws/nl-covid19-data-backend-processing/blob/topic/redesign/.github/workflows/ci-cd.yml)
[![repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/minvws/nl-covid19-data-backend-processing?logo=github)](https://github.com/minvws/nl-covid19-data-backend-processing)


The **[dashboard](https://coronadashboard.rijksoverheid.nl)** provides information on the breakout and prevalence of the *Coronavirus* in The Netherlands. It combines measured and modelled data from various sources to give a broad perspective on the subject. See **[documentation](docs/)** for more information.

## **TABLE OF CONTENTS**

---

1. **[Getting Started](#getting-started)**
2. **[Development Process](#development-process)**
3. **[Contributions](#contributions)**
4. **[Disclaimers](#disclaimers)**

## **RELEASE NOTES**

---

**<a style="color:red">NOTE! Including the tracked and planned releases on the *README.md* started on 2022-04-05!</a>**

Hereby the tracked and planned changes that are implemented on the Acceptance and Production environments.

|Date of release|Source|Change|Environments|
|:---|:---|:---|:--|
|2022-04-06|[vws_vaccine_deliveries_administered.ipynb](./src/dataflows/vws_vaccine_deliveries_administered.ipynb)|Added "Novavax" within the JSON-object *[vaccine_administered](https://github.com/minvws/nl-covid19-data-dashboard/blob/develop/packages/app/schema/nl/vaccine_administered.json)*.| <input type="checkbox" disabled checked /> Acceptance<br/><input type="checkbox" disabled checked /> Production|
|2022-04-05|[vws_manual_input_vaccine_shots_planned.ipynb](./src/dataflows/vws_manual_input_vaccine_shots_planned.ipynb)|Replaces a workflow to populate the JSON-object *[vaccine_administered_planned](https://github.com/minvws/nl-covid19-data-dashboard/blob/develop/packages/app/schema/nl/vaccine_administered_planned.json)*. Previously the JSON-object was populated by [vws_vaccine_deliveries_administered.ipynb](./src/dataflows/vws_vaccine_deliveries_administered.ipynb).| <input type="checkbox" disabled checked/> Acceptance<br/><input type="checkbox" disabled /> Production|
|2022-04-06|[vws_behavior_annotations_nl.ipynb](./src/dataflows/vws_behavior_annotations_nl.ipynb)|Temporary workflow to include annotations to the **[Behavior Graphs](https://coronadashboard.rijksoverheid.nl/landelijk/gedrag)** within the JSON-object *[behavior_annotation](https://github.com/minvws/nl-covid19-data-dashboard/blob/develop/packages/app/schema/nl/behavior_annotations.json)*.| <input type="checkbox" disabled checked /> Acceptance<br/><input type="checkbox" disabled checked /> Production|

## **Getting Started**

---

### MICROSOFT SQL SERVER 2019

A **[Microsoft SQL Server 2019](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/evalcenter/evaluate-sql-server-2019)** is used to ingest and digest the various sources. **[Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)** images can also be used if on-premise or cloud solution are not available (**[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-mssql-server)**):

> Powershell

```powershell
docker run `
    -e "ACCEPT_EULA=Y" -e "SA_PASSWORD=$(-Join ('a'..'z' + 'A'..'Z' + '0'..'9' + '!@#$%^&*'.ToCharArray() | Get-Random -Count 20))" `
    --restart unless-stopped `
    -p 1433:1433 `
    -d `
    mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server:2019-latest
```

> Bash

```bash
docker run \
    -e "ACCEPT_EULA=Y" -e "SA_PASSWORD=$(gpg --gen-random -armor 1 20)" \
    --restart unless-stopped \
    -p 1433:1433 \
    -d \
    mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server:2019-latest
```
### DATATINO

To schedule, and automate, the ingestion and digestion of the data, a custom application (i.e **[Datatino Orchestrator](https://kpmg-nl@dev.azure.com/kpmg-nl/VWS-covid19-migration-project/_git/Datatino)** (publicly available soon)) in combination with **[PowerApp](https://powerapps.microsoft.com/en-us/)** are used. However the user could use a different schedule and automation solution (or manually).

> Powershell

```powershell
# Trigger a or multiple workflows

$body = @{
    flowType = 4
    dataflow = (
        1001,
        1002
    )
    protos = $null
    pipeLine = $null
    requestTime = "2021-12-31 00:00:00.0000000"
    issue = $null
};

$parameters = @{
    Method = "POST"
    Uri =  "https://<azure-function>.azurewebsites.net/api/a_flow_httpstart"
    Body = ($body | ConvertTo-Json) 
    ContentType = "application/json"
};

Invoke-RestMethod @parameters;
```

> Bash

```bash
# Trigger a or multiple workflows

curl --location --request POST 'https://<azure-function>.azurewebsites.net/api/a_flow_httpstart' \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    --data-raw '{
        "flowType": 4,
        "dataFlows": [
            1001,
            1002
        ],
        "protos": null,
        "pipeLines": null,
        "requestTime": "2021-12-31 00:00:00.0000000",
        "issuer": null
    }'
```

After the indicators are calculated, **[Datatino Protocols](https://kpmg-nl@dev.azure.com/kpmg-nl/VWS-covid19-migration-project/_git/Datatino)** (i.e. Proto, publicly available soon) are used to package the results in predefined and desired (human readable) JSON documents.

> Powershell

```powershell
# Create protos (i.e. JSON formatted documents) 

$body = @{
    protoPath = "datatino/test"
    zipPath = "datatino/testzip"
    zipFileName = "protos.zip"
    refreshProtos = $true
};

$parameters = @{
    Method = "POST"
    Uri =  "https://<azure-function>.azurewebsites.net/api/a_proto_zipprotos"
    Body = ($body | ConvertTo-Json) 
    ContentType = "application/json"
};

Invoke-RestMethod @parameters;
```

> Bash

```bash
# Create protos (i.e. JSON formatted documents) 

curl --location --request POST 'https://<azure-function>.azurewebsites.net/api/a_proto_zipprotos' \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    --data-raw '{
        "protoPath": "datatino/test",
        "zipPath": "datatino/testzip",
        "zipFileName": "protos.zip",
        "refreshProtos": true
    }'
```
### CI/CD PIPELINES

**[Azure DevOps CI/CD Pipelines](../.devops)** or **[Github Actions](../.github/workflows)** can be used to build executable `Transact-SQL` (i.e. `T-SQL`) scripts and release these scripts to their respective environment (i.e. `Development`, `Acceptance` and `Production`).

When running into CI/CD issues (e.g. IP Address restrictions), use the following command to start listening for `Github Action` jobs with self-hosted runners - on a computer with the right permissions:

> Powershell

```powershell
$TAG="ghcr.io/minvws/corona-dashboard/github-runners:unstable"
$REPOSITORY_URL="https://github.com/minvws/nl-covid19-data-backend-processing"
$GITHUB_RUNNER_TOKEN="<token>"

docker run `
    -e GITHUB_RUNNER_TOKEN=$GITHUB_RUNNER_TOKEN `
    -e GITHUB_RUNNER_REPOSITORY_URL=$REPOSITORY_URL `
    --restart unless-stopped `
    -d `
    $TAG
```

> Bash

```bash
TAG="ghcr.io/minvws/corona-dashboard/github-runners:unstable"
REPOSITORY_URL="https://github.com/minvws/nl-covid19-data-backend-processing"
GITHUB_RUNNER_TOKEN="<token>"

docker run \
    -e GITHUB_RUNNER_TOKEN=$GITHUB_RUNNER_TOKEN \
    -e GITHUB_RUNNER_REPOSITORY_URL=$REPOSITORY_URL \
    --restart unless-stopped \
    -d \
    $TAG
```

|Name|Description|Defaults|
|--|--|--|
|`GITHUB_RUNNER_TOKEN`|Runner token provided by GitHub in the Actions page. These tokens are valid for a short period.|Required if `GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN` is not provided|
|`GITHUB_RUNNER_REPOSITORY_URL`|The runner will be linked to this repository URL||


## **DEVELOPMENT PROCESS**

---

The core team aims to define and calculate various related indicators which are ultimately presented on **[dashboard](https://coronadashboard.rijksoverheid.nl)**. Some indicators are calculated using a single data source, others require a combination of data sources. The calculation of indicators is logically split in separate workflows (see **[HOW TO IMPLEMENT WORKFLOWS](src/)**).

Supplementary information regarding the dashboard can be 
found here: **[link](https://coronadashboard.rijksoverheid.nl/verantwoording)**.

## **CONTRIBUTIONS**

---

The core team works directly from this open-source repository. If you want to make a contribution we recommend opening an issue first in order to avoid the situation where we already have your contribution staged or can't use your contribution due to certain causes.

## **DISCLAIMERS**

---

One can get in touch with the development team by joining the **[CODE For NL Slack](https://doemee.codefor.nl)**, channel: ***#coronadashboard***. Tamas Erkelens (from the Municipality of Amsterdam) is the main contact person for of the team. 

<a style="color:red">**NOTE!**</a> This is not the same development team that created the *NL Coronavirus Notification App*.

Commit message:

Develop (#87)
* add sunday filter

* add sunday filters to VR and GM

* fine tune script

* dont run on PRD

* deactivate protos config for "vaccine_delivery"

* add Release notes

* update README.md

* add function to convert datetime

* deactivate flow estimated adminstered vaccines

* deactivate third shot administered manual workflow

* Topic/cor 526 nice hospital admission per 100000 (#85)

* Add existing setup to pybook in preparation

* update views to implement per 100k inhabitants

* convert to numeric to provide proper rounding

* temporarily turn off the actual values in views

* check in changes

* fix typo

* add holidays to ipynb

* Topic/cor 527 bug ecdc cases variants (#86)

* Fixed SP staging2Inter for ecdc cases-variants

* Saved the changes for the SP

* Added tables,views,configs for ECDC cases-variants

* Added tables,views,configs for ECDC cases-variants

* Added depencies for ecdc flows

* fixed typos

Co-authored-by: netcompany-mke <mke@netcompany.com>
Co-authored-by: netcompany-baam <97025357+netcompany-baam@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# **NL CORONAVIRUS DASHBOARD**

---

**<a style="color:red">NOTE! STILL WORKING ON IT.</a>**

**<a style="color:red">NOTE! DUE TO TECHNICAL ISSUES THE GITHUB ACTION RUN INTO ERRORS. WE ARE TRYING TO FIX THIS AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.</a>**

[![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/minvws/nl-covid19-data-backend-processing/ci-cd?label=build&logo=github-actions&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/minvws/nl-covid19-data-backend-processing/blob/topic/redesign/.github/workflows/ci-cd.yml)
[![repo size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/minvws/nl-covid19-data-backend-processing?logo=github)](https://github.com/minvws/nl-covid19-data-backend-processing)


The **[dashboard](https://coronadashboard.rijksoverheid.nl)** provides information on the breakout and prevalence of the *Coronavirus* in The Netherlands. It combines measured and modelled data from various sources to give a broad perspective on the subject. See **[documentation](docs/)** for more information.

## **TABLE OF CONTENTS**

---

1. **[Getting Started](#getting-started)**
2. **[Development Process](#development-process)**
3. **[Contributions](#contributions)**
4. **[Disclaimers](#disclaimers)**

## **RELEASE NOTES**

---

**<a style="color:red">NOTE! Including the tracked and planned releases on the *README.md* started on 2022-04-05!</a>**

Hereby the tracked and planned changes that are implemented on the Acceptance and Production environments.

|Date of release|Source|Change|Environments|
|:---|:---|:---|:--|
|2022-04-13|[rivm_booster_shots_coverage_nl.ipynb](./src/dataflows/rivm_booster_shots_coverage_nl.ipynb)|Added additional filtering to only show data until the most recent Sunday.| <input type="checkbox" disabled checked /> Acceptance<br/><input type="checkbox" disabled checked /> Production|
|2022-04-13|[ecdc_cases.ipynb](./src/dataflows/ecdc_cases.ipynb)|Allow `NA-values` to be equal as `NULL-values`.| <input type="checkbox" disabled checked /> Acceptance<br/><input type="checkbox" disabled checked /> Production|
|2022-04-13|[ecdc_variants.ipynb](./src/dataflows/ecdc_variants.ipynb)|Allow `NA-values` to be equal as `NULL-values`.| <input type="checkbox" disabled checked /> Acceptance<br/><input type="checkbox" disabled checked /> Production|
|2022-04-20|[vws_vaccine_deliveries_administered.ipynb](./src/dataflows/vws_vaccine_deliveries_administered.ipynb)| - Automate process to directly receive data from *[VWS-Portal](vws_vaccine_deliveries_administered)*. </br> - Exclude value types `vaccine_delivery` and `vaccine_delivery_weekly` from the source and partially within the output (i.e. `vaccine_delivery` only). </br> - Replace estimated administered shots with a new (manual) workflow (i.e., *[vws_manual_input_vaccine_shots_planned.ipynb](/src/dataflows/vws_manual_input_vaccine_shots_planned.ipynb)*).| <input type="checkbox" disabled /> Acceptance<br/><input type="checkbox" disabled /> Production|

## **Getting Started**

---

### MICROSOFT SQL SERVER 2019

A **[Microsoft SQL Server 2019](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/evalcenter/evaluate-sql-server-2019)** is used to ingest and digest the various sources. **[Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)** images can also be used if on-premise or cloud solution are not available (**[Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/_/microsoft-mssql-server)**):

> Powershell

```powershell
docker run `
    -e "ACCEPT_EULA=Y" -e "SA_PASSWORD=$(-Join ('a'..'z' + 'A'..'Z' + '0'..'9' + '!@#$%^&*'.ToCharArray() | Get-Random -Count 20))" `
    --restart unless-stopped `
    -p 1433:1433 `
    -d `
    mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server:2019-latest
```

> Bash

```bash
docker run \
    -e "ACCEPT_EULA=Y" -e "SA_PASSWORD=$(gpg --gen-random -armor 1 20)" \
    --restart unless-stopped \
    -p 1433:1433 \
    -d \
    mcr.microsoft.com/mssql/server:2019-latest
```
### DATATINO

To schedule, and automate, the ingestion and digestion of the data, a custom application (i.e **[Datatino Orchestrator](https://kpmg-nl@dev.azure.com/kpmg-nl/VWS-covid19-migration-project/_git/Datatino)** (publicly available soon)) in combination with **[PowerApp](https://powerapps.microsoft.com/en-us/)** are used. However the user could use a different schedule and automation solution (or manually).

> Powershell

```powershell
# Trigger a or multiple workflows

$body = @{
    flowType = 4
    dataflow = (
        1001,
        1002
    )
    protos = $null
    pipeLine = $null
    requestTime = "2021-12-31 00:00:00.0000000"
    issue = $null
};

$parameters = @{
    Method = "POST"
    Uri =  "https://<azure-function>.azurewebsites.net/api/a_flow_httpstart"
    Body = ($body | ConvertTo-Json) 
    ContentType = "application/json"
};

Invoke-RestMethod @parameters;
```

> Bash

```bash
# Trigger a or multiple workflows

curl --location --request POST 'https://<azure-function>.azurewebsites.net/api/a_flow_httpstart' \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    --data-raw '{
        "flowType": 4,
        "dataFlows": [
            1001,
            1002
        ],
        "protos": null,
        "pipeLines": null,
        "requestTime": "2021-12-31 00:00:00.0000000",
        "issuer": null
    }'
```

After the indicators are calculated, **[Datatino Protocols](https://kpmg-nl@dev.azure.com/kpmg-nl/VWS-covid19-migration-project/_git/Datatino)** (i.e. Proto, publicly available soon) are used to package the results in predefined and desired (human readable) JSON documents.

> Powershell

```powershell
# Create protos (i.e. JSON formatted documents) 

$body = @{
    protoPath = "datatino/test"
    zipPath = "datatino/testzip"
    zipFileName = "protos.zip"
    refreshProtos = $true
};

$parameters = @{
    Method = "POST"
    Uri =  "https://<azure-function>.azurewebsites.net/api/a_proto_zipprotos"
    Body = ($body | ConvertTo-Json) 
    ContentType = "application/json"
};

Invoke-RestMethod @parameters;
```

> Bash

```bash
# Create protos (i.e. JSON formatted documents) 

curl --location --request POST 'https://<azure-function>.azurewebsites.net/api/a_proto_zipprotos' \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    --data-raw '{
        "protoPath": "datatino/test",
        "zipPath": "datatino/testzip",
        "zipFileName": "protos.zip",
        "refreshProtos": true
    }'
```
### CI/CD PIPELINES

**[Azure DevOps CI/CD Pipelines](../.devops)** or **[Github Actions](../.github/workflows)** can be used to build executable `Transact-SQL` (i.e. `T-SQL`) scripts and release these scripts to their respective environment (i.e. `Development`, `Acceptance` and `Production`).

When running into CI/CD issues (e.g. IP Address restrictions), use the following command to start listening for `Github Action` jobs with self-hosted runners - on a computer with the right permissions:

> Powershell

```powershell
$TAG="ghcr.io/minvws/corona-dashboard/github-runners:unstable"
$REPOSITORY_URL="https://github.com/minvws/nl-covid19-data-backend-processing"
$GITHUB_RUNNER_TOKEN="<token>"

docker run `
    -e GITHUB_RUNNER_TOKEN=$GITHUB_RUNNER_TOKEN `
    -e GITHUB_RUNNER_REPOSITORY_URL=$REPOSITORY_URL `
    --restart unless-stopped `
    -d `
    $TAG
```

> Bash

```bash
TAG="ghcr.io/minvws/corona-dashboard/github-runners:unstable"
REPOSITORY_URL="https://github.com/minvws/nl-covid19-data-backend-processing"
GITHUB_RUNNER_TOKEN="<token>"

docker run \
    -e GITHUB_RUNNER_TOKEN=$GITHUB_RUNNER_TOKEN \
    -e GITHUB_RUNNER_REPOSITORY_URL=$REPOSITORY_URL \
    --restart unless-stopped \
    -d \
    $TAG
```

|Name|Description|Defaults|
|--|--|--|
|`GITHUB_RUNNER_TOKEN`|Runner token provided by GitHub in the Actions page. These tokens are valid for a short period.|Required if `GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN` is not provided|
|`GITHUB_RUNNER_REPOSITORY_URL`|The runner will be linked to this repository URL||


## **DEVELOPMENT PROCESS**

---

The core team aims to define and calculate various related indicators which are ultimately presented on **[dashboard](https://coronadashboard.rijksoverheid.nl)**. Some indicators are calculated using a single data source, others require a combination of data sources. The calculation of indicators is logically split in separate workflows (see **[HOW TO IMPLEMENT WORKFLOWS](src/)**).

Supplementary information regarding the dashboard can be 
found here: **[link](https://coronadashboard.rijksoverheid.nl/verantwoording)**.

## **CONTRIBUTIONS**

---

The core team works directly from this open-source repository. If you want to make a contribution we recommend opening an issue first in order to avoid the situation where we already have your contribution staged or can't use your contribution due to certain causes.

## **DISCLAIMERS**

---

One can get in touch with the development team by joining the **[CODE For NL Slack](https://doemee.codefor.nl)**, channel: ***#coronadashboard***. Tamas Erkelens (from the Municipality of Amsterdam) is the main contact person for of the team. 

<a style="color:red">**NOTE!**</a> This is not the same development team that created the *NL Coronavirus Notification App*.
